Innovating 
human-centered  
productivityAUTOMOTIVE

• Demand is accelerating                                                                3
• 3 challenges that are driving the need for warehouse productivity       4
• Productivity starts with ProGlove                                                6
• Safer, less stressful, more productive work environment                        8
• Enhanced mobility                                                                                          9
• ProGlove optimizes warehouse processes                             10
• Assembly line                                                                                                11
• Sequencing                                                                                                   12
• Staging                                                                                                          13
• Picking                                                                                                           14
• Incoming goods/outgoing goods                                                              15
• CKD-Packaging                                                                                            16
• ProGlove Success Story                                                             17
• Audi Success Story                                                                                      18
• Volkswagen Success Story                                                                        19
• Mercedes Benz Vans Success Story                                                        20
• Kickstart your productivity                                                           21CONTENT
3Demand is accelerating
The automotive industry is in a transformative era, 
where the status quo is being redefined by emerging 
requirements for productivity. With the introduction 
and wide acceptance of electric vehicles and the po -
tential of autonomous vehicles on the immediate hori -
zon, manufacturers are facing new demands that en -
compass technological integration, sustainability, and 
increased connectivity. The call for efficient and flexi -
ble production processes is more pressing than ever, 
as automakers strive to meet evolving consumer pref -
erences and stringent regulatory standards.  
Equipping warehouses and logistics centers to meet 
these demands requires innovation: new thinking; new 
tools; and new solutions. Productivity must increase 
exponentially. Existing technology is simply not up to 
the task and has nothing left to offer. Revolutions, such 
the dark warehouse, are many years away. Warehouse 
operations needs answers today.     
43 challenges that are driving the need 
for warehouse productivity
1. The incredible range of products.  As the 
makes and types of vehicles so does the 
volume and range of the component parts, 
positing a significant challenge to automakers 
and suppliers alike. Managing an extensive 
range of options requires substantial 
resources, increased production complexity, 
and a delicate balance between meeting 
consumer demands and maintaining cost-
efficiency. Forecasting and managing the 
global supply chain can be a nightmare.
2. The aftermarket is exploding, evolving 
from single independent locations, to 
national chains of stand-alone outlets, to 
eCommerce-only parts.  Retailers must offer 
tens of thousands of SKUs. Delivering the 
right item to the right place at the right time 
is essential. As demand, complexity, and 
competition increase, so do the challenges. 
4

5 53. An unprecedented labor shortage.  
This includes both skilled workers and 
professionals. The shortage of labor is not 
only limited to the warehouse and assembly 
line, but also affects engineers, designers, 
and other technical roles. Both retention 
and recruitment are suffering. This shortage 
leads to delays in production, increased 
labor costs, and a decrease in overall 
productivity. 

6Productivity starts 
with ProGlove
ProGlove’s innovation solves 
today’s productivity problems 
today delivering immediate and 
significant improvements to 
processes and overall warehouse 
performance. 
Adoption of ProGlove’s lightweight, 
ergonomic barcode scanners is 
almost instantaneous - it is almost 
instinctual. Notably, our devices 
enjoy a 90+% worker satisfaction 
rating. 

7
CUSTOMERS REPORT 
 27% 
increase in 
productivity33%
reduction in 
errors 6  seconds 
saved per scan
7
8ProGlove scanners are lightweight, 
ergonomically designed, and wearable.  Which 
means that workers always have both hands 
free, all the time. The repetitive motion required 
for handheld scanners is gone, as is the weight. 
Whether on the floor, a ladder or a forklift, 
workers are safer and less stressed. Safer, less stressful, more productive work environment 
8ProGlove’s clear ergonomic value translates 
into reduced physical strain and improved 
worker comfort, ultimately enhancing 
productivity and satisfaction.  Moreover, hands-
free documentation minimizes distractions 
and allows workers to fully concentrate. Our 
wearable scanners create a safer working 
environment and reduce the risk of accidents or 
errors. ProGlove wearable scanners facilitate 
continuous workflows, leading to improved 
process quality and simpler documentation. By 
seamlessly integrating with existing systems, 
our scanners streamline the documentation 
process. The devices provides real-time 
guidance and feedback to workers, ensuring 
they follow the correct procedures and reducing 
the risk of errors or inconsistencies. 

9
Enhanced mobility 
With our wearable scanners, workers can stay 
on the move and accomplish more in less 
time, ultimately boosting the productivity and 
effectiveness of the entire workforce.
Our wearable scanners are designed to optimize 
mobility by allowing workers to move freely 
between stations and throughout the plant. By 
eliminating the constraints of traditional scanning 
methods or stationary workstations, our devices 
enable workers to carry out their tasks with 
greater flexibility and adaptability, and transition 
between different job sites or workstations 
without wasting time on unnecessary walks or 
delays.    
Additionally, new data from the shop floor, 
available with ProGlove scanners, provides 
information to streamline all processes and 
layout. 
10ProGlove optimizes automotive 
and after-sales processes 
1
2
3Assembly line  
Staging  Sequencing/Kitting  4
5
6Picking
Incoming goods/Outgoing goods  
CKD-Packaging 
PRODUCTIONPRODUCTIONPRODUCTION
PRODUCTIONPRODUCTIONPRODUCTION AFTER-SALES
AFTER-SALES
11Assembly line1
Challenge
Assembly lines are meant to move fast, 
which means that the parts and kits must 
be there, ready and accurate, when needed. 
Not a moment before and certainly not a 
moment after. It is essential that all the 
processes that come before are optimized. 
Errors and bottlenecks will stop the line, with 
repercussions throughout the organization. Solution 
Introducing ProGlove’s hands-free, lightweight, 
ergonomic barcode scanners dramatically 
increases the speed and accuracy of all 
processes feeding the assembly line. No 
need to pick up and replace heavy, hand-held 
scanners. Operations can be assured of faster 
throughput, no matter the size, number, or 
complexity of component parts.Benefits  
Savings per assembly line:  
1:27 min / car  
203,620 € / year 
Adopted by
11

1212Sequencing2
Challenge
Sequencing is managing the precise order of 
components for assembly, while constantly 
adapting to the individual vehicle requirements, 
and the pace of customer demand.  The layout 
of sequencing stations within the warehouse 
requires the operator to move to different 
locations. Manual sequencing processes are 
time-consuming and prone to errors, leading to 
production delays. Solution 
ProGlove wearable barcode scanners 
facilitate the always-changing requirements 
of sequencing with a dynamic pairing option, 
allowing workers to switch sequencing 
stations without switching scanners. Workers 
receive real-time sequencing information and 
instructions via two-way communications, 
ensuring accurate and efficient process flow.Benefits  
6 seconds faster per scan
Adopted by

13 13Staging3
Challenge
The success of staging depends on maintaining 
inventory visibility, optimizing layout, and thus 
minimizing handling time, effort, and cost.  Solution 
Introducing ProGlove’s hands-free, lightweight, 
ergonomic barcode scanners dramatically 
increases the speed and accuracy of all 
processes feeding the assembly line. No 
need to pick up and replace heavy, hand-held 
scanners. Operations can be assured of faster 
throughput, no matter the size, number, or 
complexity of component parts.Benefits  
4 seconds faster per scan
Adopted by

1414Picking4
Challenge
Storing, finding, and retrieving components 
from high racks with a forklift is a reality of 
warehouse operations. Workers often struggle 
with handheld scanners while maneuvering the 
forklift, which can lead to errors, decreased 
productivity, damaged products, and safety 
concerns. Solution 
ProGlove allows operators to wear the scanner 
and effortlessly scan barcodes while keeping 
their hands free to operate the forklift and 
pick parts with both hands. This hands-free 
approach enhances accuracy, improves 
efficiency, and enhances worker safety. Benefits  
5 seconds faster per scan
50 less wrong scans / 1000 scans
Adopted by

15 15Incoming goods/
outgoing goods5
Challenge
Receiving and Shipping - the first and the last 
touchpoint of warehouse operations are crucial 
steps in the value chain. Workers often need to 
juggle tools, handheld scanners, documents, 
and components at the same time, leading to 
potential errors and delays in updating inventory 
records. Solution 
Workers using ProGlove scan barcodes on 
incoming and outgoing goods without the 
need for additional devices, ensuring real-time 
inventory updates, and seamless integration 
with production schedules. Additionally, taking a 
photo with the same device, cuts process time. Benefits  
Savings: 18 seconds / package  
Adopted by

1616CKD-Packaging6
Challenge
Complete Knock Down (CKD) shipments require 
100% process compliance. Bulky handheld 
devices slow the documentation process while 
assembling and packaging components, leading 
to delays, inaccuracies, and inefficiencies. Solution 
Ergonomic, wearable, accurate ProGlove 
scanners enable workers to perform necessary 
tasks quickly, with substantially less effort, 
while accessing real-time instructions via two-
way communications. Benefits  
4 seconds faster per scan
Adopted by

17
ProGlove Success Story
18Challenge
AUDI needed to demonstrably increase the 
speed and accuracy of barcode scanning 
as the basis for boosting the efficiency and 
effectiveness of all warehouse processes. 
Specifically, in the CKD process, different 
parts are commissioned and packed in bigger 
cardboard boxes for shipments
Solution
ProGlove’s wearable devices made it easier for 
shipments to be verified and processed, and 
caused a more intuitive workflow providing 
immediate improvements in order accuracy and 
speed of assembly. 
Result
Packing was streamlined with easy handling 
regardless of order volumes. Audi
"Workers no longer have to reach around and 
fetch a scanner from another position. ProGlove 
scanners are wearable and accurate, and enable 
fluid, uninterrupted processes."
HARTMUT BARTSCH
Head of CKD Packing, AUDI
19
"We chose ProGlove scanners because the 
devices worked flawlessly during the pilot. 
Implementation was easy and our employees are 
very satisfied."
DOMINIK BIRTH-RUSZCZYNSKI
Head of Lean Logistics and Technology, 
Volkswagen  Volkswagen Challenge
Volkswagen is one of the largest car 
manufacturers in the world, with millions of picks 
per day across distribution centers, assembly 
processes, and aftersales logistics sites. They 
have a need for absolutely accurate and efficient 
tracking of original parts and accessories at all 
stages of receiving, production, and shipping.  
Solution
Volkswagen looked to ProGlove’s devices 
to deliver on process quality, while directly  
influencing efficiency gains and improving the 
overall shop floor experience.  
Result
With ProGlove, Volkswagen has been able to save 
between two and four seconds per pick and is 
continuing to roll out these hands-free scanners 
to more processes and sites. Saving even two 
seconds, and maybe four seconds per scan, 
translates into significant productivity gains with 
enormous ROI implications.  
20Mercedes Benz Vans Challenge
Mercedes-Benz Vans needed an accurate and 
efficient way to identify issues (such as inefficiencies 
and bottlenecks), update methods of tracking, 
and improve productivity across all stages of its 
extensive logistics operations. 
Solution
By deploying ProGlove's wearable scanners, 
Mercedes-Benz Vans drove its digital transformation 
and collected the high impact they were looking for. 
MARK Display’s screen features were particularly 
helpful to reduce the time operators spent standing 
in front of a shelf to manually compare item 
numbers. In combination with our ProGlove Insight 
software, they are able to detect issues faster and 
streamline operations. 
Result
Mercedes-Benz Vans builds hundreds of vehicles per 
day with some 1,000 scans per car.  A minimum of 
four seconds saved per scan makes for substantial 
productivity gains. Building on this success, they are 
in the process of bringing ProGlove technology to 21 
Mercedes-Benz Vans sites.   
RONJA JAKOBI
Logistics Planner, Mercedes-Benz AG  
"Thanks to ProGlove, 
we made our 
logistics processes 
more digital and efficient. We also increased acceptance 
among workers by significantly improving ergonomics and 
simplifying processes. By using ProGlove's Insight software 
platform, we will also be able to measure 
these improvements on the shop floor."
21Kickstart your productivity
Take the ProGlove Challenge
info@proglove.com
www.proglove.comLet us show you, in your environment, the kind of productivity 
ProGlove delivers. 30 minutes, on your shop floor with your 
workers, our scanners vs yours. We call it the ProGlove 
Challenge. There’s very little to lose and a lot of productivity 
to gain.
21