CASE STUDY
• Reduced error rate in picking
• 15% - 20% improvement in 
employee performance 
• Increase in employee 
satisfaction and retention
• 27% Improvement in overall 
process efficiency NUMBERS
ProGlove customer since In Germany more than 
250  
logistics employees 2020
>60
Use of MARK scanners 
in Germany and FranceRESULTSINDUSTRY
Consumer GoodsPROGLOVE S OLUTION
Wearable Scanner MARK 2 ASICS relies on 
ProGlove  for:
• packing stations
• returns
• order picking
• High racks in combination 
with forklift27% increase 
in productivity in ASICS’ 
European Distribution Center
Retail
75,000  m2 
warehouse space
ASICS is a global athletic footwear and apparel brand founded in 1949 in Japan. The company name is an acronym of 
"Anima Sana In Corpore Sano" (A healthy mind in a healthy body) . The company's mission is to "Create Quality Lifestyles 
through Intelligent Sports Technology". ASICS is one of the top ten sportswear manufacturers with global sales of 
around 3.1 billion euros (2021). The company operates 1,900 stores worldwide and employs about 8,900 people.About ASICS
More than ever, the retail industry needs speed and flexibility to ensure 
smooth multichannel delivery to customers. To meet the needs of an ever-
changing market environment, ASICS is testing and embracing innovative 
technologies in its European Distribution Center (EDC) in Germany, and 
its Southern European Distribution Center in France. Every shipment that 
leaves the distribution center must be correct and on time, every single 
time. Therefore, scanning must be fast and accurate. ASICS has been able 
to optimize its picking and returns processing by making logistics faster, 
easier, and more accurate with ProGlove wearable scanners. SummaryCASE STUDY
Customer satisfaction, and the company's brand promise hinge on the 
ability to deliver on-time and in-full (OTIF), every single time. Consistency 
has been a challenge as ASICS has had to deal with rising labor costs, 
turnover, increasing demand, and supply chain issues. In this multichannel 
environment, distribution centers support both ASICS stores (B2B) and 
online orders (B2C). ASICS previously used conventional barcode scanners, 
which were heavy and were not designed ergonomically. They also required 
awkward movements for repetitive tasks, which slowed the process and 
increased the possibility of injury.
Complete visibility into and control of the scanner fleet was a key concern 
as ASICS also needed to avoid downtime and expenses caused by broken, 
uncharged, or lost devices. Therefore, the company needed a solution that 
could provide reliable data on the location, condition, and battery status of 
all the scanners.Challenge at ASICS
ASICS operates according to the Japanese Kaizen principle of continuous 
improvement. Thus, they focuse heavily on the quality of operations, including 
the distribution centers. There, the focus is on continuously monitoring the 
processes in order to continually improve. They looked to technological 
innovation to increase their visibility into warehouse operations.Improving quality
CASE STUDY
ASICS, like so many retail companies, also has difficulty recruiting 
and retaining qualified personnel. They have learned that the working 
environment is an issue central to worker satisfaction. That's why the 
company was very interested in finding an ergonomic solution for its 
many scanning processes. A safer working environment which requires 
less exertion to complete the assigned tasks is much more pleasant and 
attractive, and positively influences word of mouth.Attracting and 
retaining employees
Needing an innovative solution to barcode scanning, ASICSS looked to state-of-the-art technology to increase both 
speed and efficiency. It’s important to understand that their picking process consists of low runners (items that 
do not have to be picked often) , and high runners which are picked frequently during the day and must be shipped 
quickly.
The picking of low runners is therefore fully automated with robots. However, the situation is different for high 
runners. They have to be picked frequently during the day and shipped quickly. This requires a higher speed than 
the robots can provide and so is accomplished by the employees because they are much more agile. ProGlove's 
lightweight, wearable scanners are completely hands free, allowing workers to scan goods or packages much faster 
and more ergonomically. ProGlove in use at ASICS"To meet the major challenges of the new retail and e-commerce landscape and live up to our principle 
of continuous improvement, we are always looking for innovative solutions that improve our efficiency 
and make us even more attractive as an employer. With ProGlove, we have succeeded in doing both. 
The work ergonomics of our employees have improved significantly and we have been able to increase 
our process efficiency in the packing process by an incredible 27%."
MICHAEL GRYSZKO-PRATTES , 
Director of Distribution, ASICS Europe B.V.
Hands-free scanning complements robotics
CASE STUDY
Online B2C order processing and returns are even more demanding than 
the B2B process for supporting the retail stores. For a distribution center 
like the ASICS EDC, this means huge volumes of returns every day with 
enormous scanning requirements. Each returned package must be opened, 
the goods inspected and - if the return is in order and received within the 
required period - put back into storage and the proper information sent so 
the customer’s account can be updated. In order for this to happen error-
free, the scanners must capture data accurately and reliably.
ProGlove supports ASICS in making the time-consuming processing 
of returns faster and more efficient. Employees are able to work hands 
free, easily picking up the packages and the tools to unpack them, while 
seamlessly operating the terminals. This would be impossible with the 
limitations of a handheld barcode scannerMastering the 
high demands of 
e-commerce orders 
and returns
High turnover and the shortage of skilled workers are major problems 
for ASICS and it raises the important question: How can we retain our 
employees and attract new ones? Innovative tools like ProGlove's scanners 
make work easier, contribute to higher employee satisfaction and improve 
performance by 15-20%. Additionally, employees know when a warehouse 
has adopted superior technology, and it feeds word of mouth, which is an 
incredibly strong influencer. This is how employee-centric technology gives 
ASICS a decisive edge as an employer. Differentiation in 
the competition 
for labor
To keep up with increasing demand, ASICS needed to take a close look at 
labor-intensive picking and packing. For these analytics, the ProGlove MARK 
scanners and the ProGlove Gateway provide fundamental data that goes 
well beyond just barcode content. Now, the company can combine all data 
from the ProGlove devices and conduct meaningful process analyses. The 
gateway can also be used to add, change, or remove functions as required. 
In this way, ASICS brings together data from the scanners, robotics, and the 
WMS for analytical evaluation. This creates the basis for optimizing every 
process step including warehouse design.Analytics 
and process 
optimizationThe "units picked per hour" (UPH) factor is the metric of speed. It measures 
how many items an employee picks per hour. With ProGlove’s MARK 
scanners, ASICS was able to increase its UPH rate by 27%. This not only 
reduced pure scanning time, it also helped improve overall process 
efficiency.Increasing the pick 
rate
CASE STUDY
Benefits
Yield and ROI depend on real-time inventory management. By using ProGlove scanners, ASICS was able 
to improve the quality and efficiency of its warehouse processes and achieve a 27% improvement in 
overall productivity. A 27% increase in overall productivity
The availability and reliability of scan data is of paramount importance to ASICS. The company was able 
to drastically reduce its scanning errors. More accurate scans combined with more barcodes scanned 
per shift thus lead to less rescans and less workflow interruptions.Minimizing errors
ProGlove's innovative barcode scanner and technology allowed ASICS to capture not only product 
information, but also data from the shop floor, such as product location. All this is integrated within the 
WMS and synchronized with picking lists. This integration has enabled ASICS to meet the challenges 
of the new retail and e-commerce landscape, making processes such as forecasting and inventory 
management much more accurate.Integration with the inventory management system