CASE STUDY
• Lower error rate in the 
picking process
• Minimization of employee 
training
• More efficient, ergonomic 
processes
• Improved employee 
satisfaction and retention
• Increase in overall 
performance by up to 15%.NUMBERS
PROGLOVE  customer since 5 of 9  
Warehouses/distribution 
centers in Austria
Order picking:
200  300 2021
PROGLOVE  devices in 
use RESULTSINDUSTRY
RetailPROGLOVE SOLUTION
Wearable Scanner MARK Basic, 
MARK 2 and MARK Display
incl. integration into WMSAPPLICATION AREAS
Logistics: goods receiving and 
picking for stores and e-commerceSPAR achieves a 15% 
improvement in productivity 
with ProGlove
scans per hour up to
The SPAR Austria Group operates food and sports retail stores, and shopping centers in Austria and 7 neighboring 
countries. They also have a burgeoning e-commerce business. Gross sales of the entire group grew by a total of 
+4.7% to 17.37 billion euros in 2021. SPAR was particularly successful in Austria, where it further extended its market 
leadership in food retailing with sales revenue of € 8.63 billion (+3.9%). In total, the SPAR Austria Group employs over 
90,000 people. In Austria, SPAR is the largest private Austrian employer with more than 50,000 employees.
SPAR is also setting new standards in many other areas - for example, in store architecture, product range design, 
logistics ,and marketing - with the aim of achieving its vision of becoming an Austrian trading company and a Central 
European trading group and taking the SPAR brand even further forward.About SPAR Austria
If SPAR is to achieve its plans for growth, it’s logistics and distribution must 
become significantly more productive. At five of its nine distribution centers 
in Austria, and most notably at its new central warehouse for fresh products 
in Vorchdorf, SPAR is using ProGlove's wearable scanners to streamline 
the picking process and provide employees with "tangible results" in the 
areas they care most about – the speed, ease, and accuracy of the scanning 
process; the reduced chances of injury or error. With the ProGlove wearable 
scanners, employees have their hands free at all times to safely lift goods 
and packages. All barcodes are captured and processed faster than ever 
before. On the integrated display of the scanners, employees always have 
the necessary picking instructions in view and are systematically guided 
through the process. This minimizes the error rate and contributes overall 
to employee satisfaction and loyalty.SummaryCASE STUDY
SPAR is facing a number of serious challenges to its growth plans.
• Customer demand is high and product diversity is increasing. They 
must maintain, if not increase customer satisfaction
• Like most retail companies, SPAR is struggling with employee turnover 
and the fact that qualified staff is currently hard to find. 
• However,  logistics must run smoothly and efficiently as a core factor of 
a functioning supply chain. 
• Nevertheless, the quality of the picking processes must be maintained 
in order to supply stores and e-commerce customers correctly and 
quickly. 
• Multiple picking for different stores on one picking vehicle is a source of 
errors, because employees easily mix up the correct container. Challenge at SPAR
MATTHIAS KIENZL
Head of Goods Flow and 
Warehouse Management, 
SPAR Austria
"From the very first appointment with ProGlove, we were immediately convinced by the innovative scanner solutions. 
After successful tests in different scenarios, we were quickly convinced of the increased efficiency and high 
acceptance among employees. We are definitely impressed by the unique ergonomics."
Display directly on the back of the hand
The picking carts that the pickers use to go through the shelves contain the 
boxes for the orders from the different stores. Up to 200 different products 
per hour are "picked" into these boxes. The pickers are completely mobile 
have their hands free to safely and quickly remove the goods from the 
shelves and place them in the respective box. CASE STUDY
Speed and quality count
The SPAR stores receive their fresh food daily from the warehouse in 
Vorchdorf. In the future, deliveries will be made twice a day to guarantee the 
freshness. This means a high turnover of goods, which requires fast and 
precise scanning in the warehouse. Currently, 40 employees are working 
in Vorchdorf using around 150 ProGlove scanners. Soon the number of 
employees will be increased to 80, the target is 120. SPAR Austria organizes its logistics centers by region. ProGlove is used for 
both in-store supply and e-commerce. Like most retailers, SPAR started to 
expand e-commerce during the Corona pandemic. The company offers both 
home delivery and in-store pickup. Employees are tasked with going through 
the shelves in the supermarket to find and scan the goods the customer has 
ordered. ProGlove’s MARK Basic scanners display the customer’s order on 
a terminal mounted on the picking cart. Afterwards, they are either packed 
for shipping or deposited in a pickup box in the front of the store.Areas of application for ProGlove at 
SPAR Austria
Use Case 1:
In-store picking 
for e-commerce
Example: new central warehouse in Vorchdorf
The 6 regional distribution centers/warehouses are conveniently located 
in Austria. They are each located in the provinces in which they supply 
stores. The new central warehouse in Vorchdorf was recently put into 
operation. With more than 6,000 m² of refrigerated space, capacity has 
been created here to sustainably handle the warehousing and distribution 
of refrigerated goods for all of SPAR. Use Case 2:
Picking for store 
delivery
CASE STUDY
SPAR sets new standards in logistics with 
cutting-edge technology
ProGlove’s innovative technology brings SPAR information from the shop 
floor that is used to better understand and significantly improve workflows. 
All this new data is available to, and integrated with the SPAR Warehouse 
Management System, enabling the connection to and comparison between 
order, display and store box in the background. This was jointly developed 
so that exactly the required fields and categories are displayed.Each box has its own label. This is linked to the display so that the employee 
can always directly determine whether the right item has been placed 
in the right box. This is an important quality step that ensures that the 
correct goods are delivered to the stores. After each scan, the check and 
confirmation on the display are automatic. Each employee has a ProGlove 
Scanner MARK display on the back of their hand. The scanner's display 
shows the storage location, the item description, the quantity, and the route.  
Free hands, full mobility
ProGlove has significantly reduced the physical demands on the workers 
while increasing the speed and accuracy of the scanning process. The 
lightweight, wearable devices give workers free and full range of motion, 
and there is no need to pick up and put down additional devices over and 
over again. Plus, the interactive display on the scanners brings information 
to the workers no matter where they are on the shop floor. Feedback on 
scans (e.g., OK / NOK) are received optically, haptically, and acoustically, 
eliminating unnecessary interruptions and guiding workers through the 
picking process faster.
CASE STUDY
Improving ergonomics and attracting employees
Vorcfhdorf’s central local has made it the logical choice for distribution 
centers and logistics hubs, not just for SPAR, but also for many of SPAR’s 
most important competitors. The ongoing competition for qualified 
workers is fierce. With pay and benefits roughly equal, any improvement 
to the working environment has become a distinct advantage in both 
recruiting and retaining workers. The introduction of ProGlove’s ergonomic, 
lightweight, wearable barcode scanners is seen by workers as a meaningful 
and attractive benefit, giving them freedom of movement and safety on the 
shop floor.
Workers and management are both enthusiastic about these faster, 
more accurate, hands-free scanners. The working environment is vastly 
improved, worker satisfaction is up, and productivity is on the rise. This new 
warehouse in Vorchdorf is used as a showcase for the entire Austria Group, 
testing new ideas and new technologies. Other warehouses and logistics 
centers are studying the advances achieved with ProGlove and are planning 
to start using the devices as well.
In addition, the ProGlove scanners are already being used successfully in 
SPAR’s online wine store, Weinwelt.at . Customers order beverages and 
supplies which are conveniently delivered to their homes.
The ProGlove MARK Basic and MARK 2 scanners are used both for storing 
the wine on the shelves and for picking for the stores and customers. The 
individual bottles are removed from the shelves and repacked. This is where 
the wearables are particularly beneficial, as employees can lift and pack the 
beverage bottles and packages much more easily, securely, and safely with 
two hands.Use Case 3:
Wine World
CASE STUDY
Based on the success of the project in Austria, the Group is considering introducing the MARK devices 
into its locations in Hungary, Slovenia and Italy. Initial tests are already underway. The rollout 
is planned for 2023. 
In addition, SPAR is currently testing the MARK 3 multi-range scanner, which covers greater distances 
and ranges, and is therefore particularly suitable for use in combination with the forklifts and vehicles 
in SPAR warehouses. As the fastest, lightest and most versatile solution, MARK 3 optimizes hands-free 
scanning within the supply chain and guarantees high scanning speed as well as a smooth and flexible 
workflow even from a forklift.Outlook