Innovating 
human-centered  
productivityLOGISTICS

• Essential to the economy                                                                3
• 3 challenges that are driving the need for warehouse productivity       4
• Productivity starts with ProGlove                                                6
• Safer, less stressful, more productive work environment                        8
• Enhanced mobility                                                                                          9
• ProGlove optimizes warehouse processes                             10
• Picking                                                                                                             11
• Sorting                                                                                                           12
• Incoming goods/outgoing goods                                                                                                          13
• Process quality control                                                                                                         14
• Cross Docking                                                                                              15
• AGV/AMG Collaboration                                                                                            16
• ProGlove Success Story                                                             17
• DHL Success Story                                                                                     18
• GXO Success Story                                                                                     19
• Planzer Success Story                                                                                20
• Kickstart your productivity                                                            21CONTENT
3Essential to the economy 
Bringing goods and services to market is es -
sential to the functioning of our economy. 
Whether it’s produce, manufactured goods, or 
simply moving products from place to place, lo -
gistics and transportation are the engines that 
drive commerce.  
The logistics and transportation industries are 
critical to promoting trade and ensuring smooth 
operations. However, escalating customer de -
mand, and the costs of meeting that demand, 
along with everchanging legislation are creating 
enormous hurdles. It is essential that these in -
dustries find immediate ways to increase effi -
ciency and productivity. 
The warehouses and distribution centers are 
key leverage points as logistics and transporta -
tion look to overcome these hurdles and forge 
greater success. ProGlove’s vision and innova -
tion are ushering in a new age of productivity, 
predictability, and profitability. 
43 challenges that are driving the need 
for warehouse productivity
1. Improving customer satisfaction The ware -
house is measured by meeting contractual 
specifications for OTIF shipments, which is the 
essential KPI. Customer satisfaction is the goal. 
The ability to meet those obligations in changing 
times can be enhanced by increasing the speed 
and accuracy of barcode scanning, Scanning  is 
part of every process and any improvements 
have great impact. The faster and more accurate 
the scans, the greater the increase in both effi -
ciency and productivity. 
2. Flexibility on the shopfloor  Demand rises and 
falls, supply chains can be erratic. The ware -
house needs flexibility to respond and never 
stumble. To embed flexibility into the DNA of the 
warehouse, operations must first establish and 
incorporate dynamic, mobile processes. Sta -
tionary processes and devices are an increasing 
impediment. The mobility and technology of 
barcode scanning improves the speed and accu -
racy of easy documentation, and provides better, 
real-time data to aid inventory management. 
4

553. Increasing worker safety  The reality of 
the shop floor is that there are significant 
opportunities to increase worker safety, 
especially with barcode scanning, where 
current tools may be heavy, tied to a stationary 
device, and require repetitive motion. Wearable, 
lightweight, ergonomic scanners eliminate 
these issues and ensure that workers always 
have both hands available. Acoustic, visual, and 
haptic feedback on the same device boosts 
productivity. 
6Productivity starts 
with ProGlove
ProGlove’s innovation solves 
today’s productivity problems 
today delivering immediate and 
significant improvements to 
processes and overall warehouse 
performance. 
Adoption of ProGlove’s lightweight, 
ergonomic barcode scanners is 
almost instantaneous - it is almost 
instinctual. Notably, our devices 
enjoy a 90+% worker satisfaction 
rating. 

7
CUSTOMERS REPORT 
 27% 
increase in 
productivity33%
reduction in 
errors 6  seconds 
saved per scan
7
8ProGlove scanners are lightweight, 
ergonomically designed, and wearable.  Which 
means that workers always have both hands 
free, all the time. The repetitive motion required 
for handheld scanners is gone, as is the weight. 
Whether on the floor, a ladder or a forklift, 
workers are safer and less stressed. Safer, less stressful, more productive work environment 
8ProGlove’s clear ergonomic value translates 
into reduced physical strain and improved 
worker comfort, ultimately enhancing 
productivity and satisfaction.  Moreover, hands-
free documentation minimizes distractions 
and allows workers to fully concentrate. Our 
wearable scanners create a safer working 
environment and reduce the risk of accidents or 
errors. ProGlove wearable scanners facilitate 
continuous workflows, leading to improved 
process quality and simpler documentation. By 
seamlessly integrating with existing systems, 
our scanners streamline the documentation 
process. The devices provides real-time 
guidance and feedback to workers, ensuring 
they follow the correct procedures and reducing 
the risk of errors or inconsistencies. 

9
Enhanced mobility 
With our wearable scanners, workers can stay 
on the move and accomplish more in less 
time, ultimately boosting the productivity and 
effectiveness of the entire workforce. 
Our wearable scanners are designed to optimize 
mobility by allowing workers to move freely 
between stations and throughout the plant. By 
eliminating the constraints of traditional scanning 
methods or stationary workstations, our devices 
enable workers to carry out their tasks with 
greater flexibility and adaptability, and transition 
between different job sites or workstations 
without wasting time on unnecessary walks or 
delays.    
Additionally, new data from the shop floor, 
available with ProGlove scanners, provides 
information to streamline all processes and 
layout. 
10ProGlove optimizes 
warehouse processes 
1
2
3Picking  
Sorting  4
5
6Process Quality Control 
Cross-Docking  
AGV/AMG collaboration  Incoming goods / Outgoing goods
11Picking1
Challenge
Warehouses store products high, low, and 
everything in-between. Space, and how that 
space is used, is a critical success factor in 
locating, scanning, and picking the right product 
to ship. Often, the worker is on a ladder or 
driving a forklift, each lifting the worker, but 
leaving them with the same constraints of 
handheld scanners – weight, repetitive motion, 
and awkward movements. Solution 
High, low, or tightly packed, whether on foot, 
a ladder, or a forklift, ProGlove’s lightweight, 
ergonomic wearable scanners enhance any 
mobility initiative. Our scanners streamline 
the scanning for easier documentation, take a 
photo to report damages, and transmit two-way 
communications. Workers always have both 
hands free.  Benefits  
 
4 seconds per scan saved
Adopted by
11
1212Sorting2
Challenge
Logistics centers experience a wide range 
of demand, which means that efficiency is a 
paramount concern, especially in sorting. This 
is a price-sensitive and competitive marketplace 
and all orders must be shipped to contractual 
obligations, no matter the order size, complexity, 
or urgency. Solution 
With ProGlove’s haptic, audible, and visual 
feedback, workers are quickly able to find, 
document, pick, and sort the correct products. 
The devices flag any scanning errors improving 
loading speed and guiding quality. Two-way 
communications alerts the worker to high 
priority orders and picks. Workers are mobile 
and hands-free – documentation is easy and 
thorough. Benefits 
20% productivity increase
Elimination of unproductive scans 
10.000h/year time savings 
Adopted by
Deutsche Post
13133
Challenge
Increasing demand and increasing returns 
means that both Receiving and Shipping are 
operating at or beyond capacity. Quality control 
becomes an overarching concern. Asking 
workers to do their same jobs with the same 
tools, only faster, erodes the time and attention 
needed for each process. Quality control is not 
immune.  Solution 
ProGlove scanners are faster, opening up 
more time for inspection and quality control. 
They are more accurate, can read multiple 
barcodes at one time, and the data is easily 
transmitted to the WMS. They timestamp for 
complete documentation, and can take a photo 
of damaged goods. Direct feedback via the 
scanner, via optic, acoustic, and haptic cues, 
gives interactive, real-time direction. Benefits 
40 min/day saved
50% loading time reduction for shop floor 
drivers
Adopted byIncoming goods/
outgoing goods

1414Process quality control 4
Challenge
The efficiency and productivity of the 
warehouse is often undermined by the 
inefficiency of processes. To date there 
has been little transparency into the actual 
movement of workers and goods, and the 
efficacy of the processes they repeat multiple 
times every day. Solution 
ProGlove’s INSIGHT  provides a new window 
into the shop floor, and every process that 
every worker executes. Data from the fleet is 
analyzed and displayed in dashboards that 
scan performance to identify inefficiencies 
and bottlenecks, and track improvements. 
Additionally, our software enables operations 
to reconceive the physical environment to 
implement more logical and efficient workflows. Benefits 
Eliminate unproductive scans:
up 6% time savings/day
100,000€ savings/year
Adopted by

1515Cross-Docking 5
Challenge
Operationally, unloading an inbound vehicle 
and loading them directly into an outbound 
vehicle may spare the expense of storage, but 
it compresses the time for all documentation 
and quality control processes. Workers need 
tools that increase dexterity, are fast, and very 
accurate. Solution 
ProGlove’s wearable scanners shave seconds 
off every scan, while reducing errors. Workers 
and workflows are much more productive 
ensuring that the required documentation, 
including photos of damaged goods, is easy, 
high-quality, and transmitted to the WMS. 
Workers operate our devices without leaving 
the forklift, and always have both hands free. 
Two-way communications add to the speed and 
accuracy. Benefits 
5 seconds faster per scan
Adopted by

1616AGV/AMG collaboration 6
Challenge
Operations looks to technology and automation 
for breakthroughs in productivity. However, 
there is budget or priority for changing existing 
technology, such as the WMS. Autonomous 
automation is years away  Solution 
“Collabomation” is the term we use to describe 
the smart combination of humans and robots, 
relying on each to do what they do best. AGVs 
and AMRs greatly ease the physical burden and 
work to ensure a smooth workflow. Workers 
with our wearable devices are much more 
productive because of their speed, range, and 
dexterity. The best news is that Collabomation 
is available today. Benefits
70,000 more parcels shipped per year
>6x faster picking 
Adopted by

17
ProGlove Success Story
18Challenge
The booming e-commerce business has caused a 
steep increase in shipment volumes. DHL needed 
to address this increase without reworking their 
shopfloor and their working areas. In particular, 
processing bulky goods at the dedicated terminal 
was a challenge (DHL called this Bulky Goods 2.0). 
Solution
DHL equipped its employees with ProGlove 
scanners for full operator mobility as well as 
the, speed and accuracy of scanning. They can 
work at any point where the bulky goods arrive 
- they have all the tools they need on the back of 
their hand. DHL workers now spend more time 
processing packages than walking the aisles. 
Result
By making the entire Bulky Goods process mobile, 
faster, and more accurate, 4 seconds saved per 
scan 
• Processes are faster 
• No more stationery terminals
• Reduced errors, stress, and travel time DHL 
"Mobile scanning solutions such as ProGlove 
increase the transparency and the reliability of our 
services. In an industry where time is everything, it all 
comes down to shipping more, minimizing errors, and 
enhancing process quality.."
DR. SIMON DEYMAN  
Vice President Operations 
Parcel Hubs, DHL  
19
"We’re constantly exploring new technology that enhances 
the accuracy, efficiency and safety of our operations. 
Where we deploy wearable scanners, we can increase 
productivity up to 10% depending on the application, while 
delivering a better experience for our employees."
RICHARD CAWSTON
President, GXO Europe  GXO Challenge
As the world’s largest pure-play contract logistics 
provider. GXO fulfillment centers manage 
thousands of different products SKUs during peak 
seasonality. Scalability and flexibility required 
tools that enhance speed, accuracy, and worker 
safety.  These tools must be easy to use and 
provide data directly (and easily) to the WMS.  
Solution
ProGlove barcode scanners helped GXO achieve 
new levels of efficiency by empowering workers 
to be more productive. Our scanners reduced 
the friction in workflows, by displaying real-time 
information about storage locations, product 
identifiers, and inventory levels. Data flows into 
the WMS. Fulfillment centers are able to respond 
to demand fluctuations while meeting all OTIF 
contractual obligations.  
Result
GXO saved 6 seconds per pick, and gained 10% in 
productivity. They experienced a 75% reduction in 
errors per million units picked.  
20Planzer Challenge
Planzer’s warehouses abut railway platforms, and 
every morning approximately 25 cars of products 
arrive. They have 3 - 4 hours to complete receiving, 
documentation, and quality control. They urgently 
need tools that enable each worker to be faster, more 
accurate, and safer. 
Solution
ProGlove scanners were an enormous improvement 
over heavy, handheld devices that were tethered to 
chargers. Data was not transmitted until the device 
was seated. Now, workers are safer - they don’t have 
to get off the forklift to scan, and they always have 
both hands free. Two-way communications brings 
them information they didn’t have before. 
Result
Workers are less stressed and more satisfied. 
Processes are optimized - the increased scanning 
range has sped up documentation. With the 
information on the display, the picker always know 
what shelf and what product is next.   
JAN PFENNINGER
Extended Management Board Member, Planzer   "We are constantly testing 
technologies that can simplify 
our processes and also make the everyday work more 
pleasant for our employees. ProGlove has now been rolled 
out in all our handling locations."
21Kickstart your productivity
Take the ProGlove Challenge
info@proglove.com
www.proglove.comLet us show you, in your warehouse, the kind of productivity 
ProGlove delivers. 30 minutes, in your warehouse, with your 
workers, our scanners vs yours. We call it the ProGlove 
Challenge. There’s very little to lose and a lot of productivity 
to gain.
21